# Lab: Basics of AWS S3

Objective: This lab aims to familiarize you with Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3), how to create a bucket, upload, download, and delete objects, and manage access permissions.

Prerequisites:
1. An AWS account. If you don't have one, visit https://aws.amazon.com/ and click "Create an AWS Account".
2. Basic understanding of cloud concepts.

Duration: 1 hour

---

## Step 1: Access AWS Management Console

1.1. Open your web browser and visit the AWS Management Console at https://aws.amazon.com/console/.

1.2. Enter your email address or AWS access ID, and click "Next".

1.3. Enter your password and click "Sign In".

---

## Step 2: Access the Amazon S3 Console

2.1. After signing in, look for "Services" at the top left corner and click on it.

2.2. You will see a list of services provided by AWS. Search for "S3" in the search box and click on it. This will take you to the S3 console.

---

## Step 3: Create an S3 Bucket

3.1. Click on "Create bucket" button.

3.2. Provide a unique name for the bucket. Please note that bucket names are globally unique across all AWS accounts, so you must choose a unique name.

3.3. Choose a region that is geographically close to you to minimize latency and costs, or meets your regulatory requirements.

3.4. Leave other settings as default unless there are specific requirements for your use case.

3.5. Click on "Create".

---

## Step 4: Upload a File to the Bucket

4.1. Click on the name of the bucket that you just created.

4.2. Click on "Upload" button.

4.3. Click on "Add files". Choose a file from your local machine to upload.

4.4. After choosing the file, click on "Upload".

---

## Step 5: Download the Uploaded File

5.1. After the upload is complete, you will see the file listed in your bucket.

5.2. Select the file by clicking on the checkbox next to it.

5.3. Click on "Download" button to download the file to your local machine.

---

## Step 6: Delete the Uploaded File

6.1. Select the file again by clicking on the checkbox next to it.

6.2. Click on "Delete".

6.3. A confirmation dialog box will appear. Confirm the deletion by clicking on "Delete".

---

## Step 7: Manage Access Permissions

7.1. Select your bucket by clicking on the checkbox next to it in the S3 console.

7.2. Click on "Permissions" tab.

7.3. Click on "Edit" in the "Bucket policy" section.

7.4. Here, you can define who has access to your bucket and what actions they can perform. For now, let's make the bucket publicly accessible (note that this is not usually recommended for real-world applications for security reasons).

7.5. Paste the following JSON in the editor:

```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "PublicRead",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": "s3:GetObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YourBucketName/*"
        }
    ]
}
```

Replace "YourBucketName" with the name of your bucket.

7.6. Click on "Save changes".

---

## Step 8: Clean Up

8.1. It is a best practice to remove resources that you are no longer using to avoid unnecessary costs. To delete the bucket, select it by clicking on the checkbox next to it.

8.2. Click on "Delete".

8.3. You'll need to confirm the deletion by typing the name of the bucket into a text box and then click on "Confirm".

---

Congratulations! You have successfully learned the basics of Amazon S3. You can now create, configure, and manage your own S3 buckets, as well as upload, download, and delete objects within them. For more advanced topics, such as versioning, transfer acceleration, and lifecycle policies, please refer to the AWS S3 documentation.
